## Meals4U: A Solution to Food Insecurity for U.S. College Students 

Food insecurity is a widespread challenge among college students nationwide. According to the United States Government Accountability Office, approximately 23% of college students (3.8 million) faced food insecurity in 2020 based on an analysis conducted by the Department of Education’s National Postsecondary Student Aid Study (NPSAS) (GAO). While some students were eligible for Supplemental Nutritional Assistance Program (SNAP) benefits--or food stamps—due to their household’s low income, others did not meet other criteria for said benefits such as working in school or being a single parent. Approximately 59% of eligible students reported they did not receive benefits. Among the reported food-insecure students, about 2.2 million students had exceptionally low food security and would resort to eating less or skipping meals because of low funds. While income plays a major factor in restricting students from obtaining food, students with major allergies and dietary restrictions for health purposes also face food insecurity. Students with these restrictions often take a risk to their health as it is unknown if potentially contaminated surfaces and other foods have come in contact with the only option(s) available to them. In August 2022, Avery Gilbert, a Chicago first-year college student, passed away on only the third day on his college campus after consuming chicken containing a fish allergen, triggering a pre-existing medical condition (NBC Chicago). This led his parents to file a lawsuit against the university, citing allegations including “Chicken that was mislabeled as containing no allergens, Cross-contamination with allergens during dining food hall food preparation, Failure to provide ‘adequate and accurate warnings of food containing food allergens’, and failure to properly train staff on how to avoid cross-contamination while preparing food” (Enjuris). This tragic event highlights the importance of not only addressing food insecurity but also ensuring that the food provided to students is safe and accurately labeled, especially for those with severe allergies. Moreover, the intersection of food insecurity and dietary restrictions creates a double burden for vulnerable students, amplifying their risk of both malnutrition and serious health complications. 

## Solution: 

In this project, Meals4U offers a variety of frozen homemade meals delivered to college students’ doorsteps made fresh under strict sanitary and food preparation regulations by trained individuals/volunteers. The student can choose between two different plans: Weekly Food Delivery or Monthly Food Delivery. The price of either plan is personalized and calculated based on the results of an initial survey about household income (personal and family) to ensure it is affordable for the students as well as any dietary restrictions. The company offers five main categories of meals: Pescatarian, Gluten-Free, Vegetarian, Vegan, and Standard. The student can choose between up to three meals per day for all seven days of the week. Each meal comes with a drink, main, and side of the student’s choosing.  


## References: 

“College Football Player Dies after Teammate Finds Him Collapsed during 3rd Day on Campus.” NBC Chicago, NBC Chicago, 12 Aug. 2022, www.nbcchicago.com/news/local/suburban-college-football-player-dies-after-teammate-finds-him-collapsed-during-3rd-day-on-campus/2913635/.  

Editor, Enjuris Attorney. “Parents Sue University for Student Death from Allergy.” Enjuris, 29 Nov. 2023, www.enjuris.com/blog/news/student-death-lawsuit/.  

Office, U.S. Government Accountability. “Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program: Estimated Eligibility and Receipt among Food Insecure College Students.” Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program: Estimated Eligibility and Receipt among Food Insecure College Students | U.S. GAO, 15 Aug. 2024, www.gao.gov/products/gao-24-107074#:~:text=What%20GAO%20Found,receiving%20SNAP%20benefits%20in%202020.&text=The%2095%20percent%20confidence%20interval,of%20+/%2D%203%20percentage%20points.  

Team, ABC7 Chicago Digital. “Lake Villa College Student’s Family Sues University after He Dies from Allergic Reaction.” ABC7 Chicago, 10 Feb. 2023, abc7chicago.com/trinity-international-university-avery-gilbert-football-player-dies-allergic-reaction-death/12797571/#:~:text=Avery%20Gilbert%20died%20last%20August,a%20severe%20allergy%20to%20fish. 
